


https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/4kuo93/spoilers_everything_the_original_promise_of_ice/


"To Winterfell we pledge the faith of Greywater. Hearth and heart and harvest we yield up to you, my lord. Our swords and spears and arrows are yours to command. Grant mercy to our weak, help to our helpless, and justice to all, and we shall never fail you." — Jojen & Meera
"I swear it by earth and water." — Jojen
"I swear it by bronze and iron." — Meera
"We swear it by ice and fire." — Jojen & Meera



Quotes:

A Clash of Kings - Catelyn I
Robb's crown looked much as the other was said to have looked in the tales told of the Stark kings of old; an open circlet of hammered bronze incised with the runes of the First Men, surmounted by nine black iron spikes wrought in the shape of longswords. Of gold and silver and gemstones, it had none; bronze and iron were the metals of winter, dark and strong to fight against the cold.


A Storm of Swords - Catelyn VI
"Bronze and iron are stronger than gold and silver," Robb answered. "The old Kings of Winter wore such a sword-crown."


A Storm of Swords - Catelyn III
Robb reached down with both hands, lifted the heavy bronze-and-iron crown, and set it back atop his head, and suddenly he was a king again.


A Storm of Swords - Bran II
Bran was almost certain he had never heard this story. "Did he have green dreams like Jojen?" "No," said Meera, "but he could breathe mud and run on leaves, and change earth to water and water to earth with no more than a whispered word. He could talk to trees and weave words and make castles appear and disappear."


A Dance with Dragons - Bran III
"What will I know?" Bran asked the Reeds afterward, when they came with torches burning brightly in their hand, to carry him back to a small chamber off the big cavern where the singers had made beds for them to sleep. "What do the trees remember?"
"The secrets of the old gods," said Jojen Reed. Food and fire and rest had helped restore him after the ordeals of their journey, but he seemed sadder now, sullen, with a weary, haunted look about the eyes. "Truths the First Men knew, forgotten now in Winterfell … but not in the wet wild. We live closer to the green in our bogs and crannogs, and we remember. Earth and water, soil and stone, oaks and elms and willows, they were here before us all and will still remain when we are gone."

"You're theory is starting to look really accurate right now. Bronze and Iron = First Men/Andals (Possibly even the King of the First Men/Andals?). Earth and Water = CotF."



To add to your point about the Reeds remembering events like the Hammer of the Waters, this is from AWOIAF:
At some point the children of the forest attempted to use the hammer of the waters again. From Moat Cailin's Children's Tower the greenseers of the children called upon their nameless gods to send down the hammer of the waters to break the lands of Westeros in two. The histories say that the crannogmen grew close to the children of the forest in the days when the greenseers tried to bring the hammer of the waters down upon the Neck.
Unlike the shattering of the Arm of Dorne the attempt on the Neck was unsuccessful. The children failed and only succeeded in flooding the land, creating bogs and swamps in the Neck. Why the children's magic failed them is unknown. The swampy terrain proved an effective natural defense, however, and the First Men-held Moat Cailin never fell during the Andal invasion of Westeros.