Diombar's Song of the Last Battle

As one by one his brothers fell,

he raised the Star Sword high!

He sang the runes to the Lords of Light

—and thunder broke the sky!

Red lighting flashed—drums of thunder crashed—

a rain of fire fell

To sweep the last of the Dragon Kings down

to the smoking pits of hell!





The Doom that Came to Sarnath... and Lemuria... and Mu... and Atlantis... and Westeros?


In a recent Not a Blog post, George RR Martin [confirmed that Game of Thrones takes place on Earth.][Earth] This was an interesting tid-bit.

Many theories about the World of Ice and Fire (that I call Terros, while others have called it Planetos) have attempted to place the ASOIAF either within the 1000 Worlds of George's 1970s science fiction. Others have tried to place it on Earth, but in the future, after a [post-Apocalyptic world][Post] where civilization has reverted to barbarism and medievalism.

I agree with neither of these ideas, and I'd like to explain why.



##Epochs of Earth
As George said, this is Earth. While the continents are in a different position, as are the seas, it is our own Planet Earth. 

However, it is Earth in the distant past. Fantasy Earth, in the distant past.

How do I know this? Because George has positioned this story within the Cthulhu Mythos. The Gods of Terror who rule this world are based on H.P. Lovecraft's Yog-Sothory, as H.P. termed his pantheon of gods (Cthulhu Mythos was a term added later by H.P.'s protege August Derleth).

*As far as I can tell, not all of the gods come directly from the pantheon. The Seven, or the new gods, are not directly from the Cthulhu Mythos, as far as I can tell. The Old Gods, the souls who are located within trees, may not be from the Mythos either. This is pretty standard for the stories of the Mythos, however - many of the Mythos authors introduce their own gods that exist alongside the major Mythos figures.*

What stories am I refering to? Beyond just the seminal work of H.P. himself, there are the stories of Robert Howard, Clark Ashton Smith, Robert Price, and Derleth. These also include the later works of L. Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter, who worked in the 1960s and 1970s and expanded on the stories of the Mythos and of Conan the Barbarian.


A number of themes run through these stories, besides the terrible gods of the Mythos. And they have major consequences for the past and future of A Song of Ice and Fire. Here is a review of the major themes and what they will mean.

#End of an Epoch
The stories within the Cthulhu Mythos take place on Earth, in the past, in various epochs. All of these epochs end with *great cataclysms*. Continents sink. Continents rise from the depths. Great explosions of volcanos occur. Civilizations fall, and barbarism begins again. Evolution and devolution of man and beast take place

There are  	


















[Earth]: https://grrm.livejournal.com/536859.html?thread=26091803#t26091803 
[Post]: https://moviepilot.com/p/when-where-does-game-of-thrones-take-place-global-warming-theory/4269683