Uktena

http://www.native-languages.org/cherokee-legends.htm
Important Cherokee Mythological Figures

Unetlanvhi (Creator): This is the Cherokee word for God. Sometimes Cherokee people today also refer to the Creator as the "Great Spirit," a phrase which was borrowed from other tribes of Oklahoma. Unetlanvhi is considered to be a divine spirit with no human form or attributes and is not normally personified in Cherokee myths. The name is pronounced similar to oo-net-la-nuh-hee. Sometimes another name such as Galvladi'ehi ("Heavenly One") or Ouga ("Ruler," also spelled Ugv or Ugu) is used instead. 

Jistu: Rabbit, the trickster figure in the folklore of the Cherokee and other Southeastern tribes. His Cherokee name is pronounced similar to jeese-doo. 

Uktena: A dragon-like horned serpent of Cherokee legend. The first Uktena was said to be transformed from a human man in a failed assassination attempt on the sun. Most other Cherokee tales about Uktena have to do with Cherokee heroes slaying one. They are malevolent and deadly monsters. Their name is pronounced ook-tay-nah. 

Thunderers (Aniyvdaqualosgi or Ani-Yuntikwalaski): Storm spirits who live in the sky and command thunder and lightning. In Cherokee legends the Thunderers are human in form, unlike many tribes where thunder spirits appear as birds. Cherokee Thunderers are powerful and dangerous, but generally benign and friendly to humans. 

Tlanuwa: Giant mythological birds of prey with impenetrable metal feathers, common to the mythology of many Southeastern tribes. Their Cherokee name is pronounced tlah-noo-wah. 

Yunwi Tsunsdi' (Little People): A race of small humanoid nature spirits, sometimes referred to in English as "dwarves" or "fairies." They are usually invisible but sometimes reveal themselves as miniature child-sized people. Yunwi Tsunsdi are benevolent creatures who frequently help humans in Cherokee stories, but they have magical powers and are said to harshly punish people who are disrespectful or aggressive towards them. Their name is pronounced similar to yun-wee joon-stee (or yun-wee joon-stee-gah,) which literally means "little people." The singular form is Yvwi Usdi (pronounced yun-wee oon-stee.) 

http://www.cherokeecommunityie.org/yunwi-tsunsdi-cherokee-little-people/


Nunnehi (Travelers): Another supernatural spirit race which is friendly towards humans, particularly towards the Cherokee tribe. Nunnehi are very strong and sometimes intercede in battle on the Cherokees' behalf. Like Little People, Nunnehi are usually invisible but sometimes show themselves to humans they like (appearing as regal looking human warriors.) Their name is pronounced similar to nun-nay-hee. 

Stoneclads: Formidable rock giants of Cherokee mythology.


http://norse-mythology.org/gods-and-creatures/giants/nidhogg/
http://norse-mythology.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/Nidhogg.png
http://www.ancient-origins.net/myths-legends-europe/norse-legend-world-tree-yggdrasil-002680?page=0%2C1


Utkena - Dragon with Horns

http://whitewolf.wikia.com/wiki/Uktena
