If you look at the background of the Tarly family, and their castle (Horn Hill), it turns out that there are 2 very unique features.
The female progenitor of the Tarlys was a woods witch. She is never named & she would fuck two Tarly brothers every full moon.
These two brothers were very different. One (Harlon) was a hunter. The other (Herndon) was not, though- he was "of the Horn"

Samwell Tarly is the descendant of two twin brothers with two very different skill sets, plus a magical woman (or COTF?)
plus, somehow, the Tarlys have a Valyrian steel sword, the greatsword Heartsbane. This is an important, almost mythical family

Randyll Tarly clearly takes after his ancestor Harlon the Hunter. First, he is a hunter, one of renown, & a great general.

Sam's younger brother Dickon would also appear to follow his ancestor Harlon. Like his father, and like Harlon, he is a Hunter.

It's clear even from the Tarly sigil that the hunter side of the family is dominant, but, if you look closely at the Tarly sigil, you'll see that the hunter has a horn at the ready. 

The horn side of the family, from Herndon of the Horn, while overlooked, is very important. It's called HORN Hill after all.

In the story there are 3 important horns: Dragonbinder, Mance's horn burned by Mel, & the Horn of Joramun (or Horn of Winter).
of the three, the most important is the Horn of Joramun (HOJ). He blew the horn & "woke the giants from the earth." Damn!

So the HOJ is damn powerful. It may even bring down the wall. So, Mel wants to destroy it. And she thinks she did, but I don't.

Most readers don't, I'd say. The consensus opinion (FWIW) is that the Horn of Joramun is a broken horn found by Jon and Ghost.

Jon and Ghost found the HOJ north of the wall near the fist of the first men. Eventually-importantly-it was given to Samwell Tarly.

and when Sam is sent south to Oldtown (100 leagues from Horn Hill; which is close in ASOIAF), he still has the broken horn.

So let me posit that Samwell is "of the Horn". He is not a hunter, clearly, so he does not follow Harlon. He is of Herndon.

A descendant of a magical family, with two distinct sides/natures, one of which is "of the Horn", now has a magical horn. Huh. 

Even more interesting, Sam has been sent to Oldtown, which sure looks to be a big part of TWOW and ADOS, and their wars.
Now, if you subscribe to @PoorQuentyn 's brilliant Eldritch Apocolypse, you suspect that Euron will be attacking Oldtown. 
And while there, Euron might grab the Horn of Joramun and use it to bring down the wall. Well, I question that part. 

If you read this Tumblr, you know I'm focused on the inspiration for the Gods of Terros. It's mostly Lovecraftian.  I recently published a theory which posits that Euron is an avatar of Nyarlathotep
What does this mean? 

Well, it means that there is little need for Euron to bring down the Wall. He is going to summon the Lion of Night - Nyarlathotep again - to begin a new Long Night.

So why have Samwell of the Horn carry a magic horn from the Wall to Oldtown, if Euron won't use it? Who would use it then?

What character is directly associated with horns? What sort of magical person could weld the horn? And where would they use it?

To me, the answer is clear. It's Samwell Tarly-Sam of the Horn-that will use the Horn of Winter to wake giants from the Earth & the place where he blows the horn?What better place for Sam of the Horn to blow the Horn of Winter than his home, Horn Hill? 

This combines the role of Sam, the supposed weakling who killed an Other, with his ancestral nature: Sam of the Horn.


Why does Samwell of the Horn blow the Horn of Joramun? Let's explore that quickly.


Sam's one special power is that he is a voracious reader. And now he is in the place with the most books in the world - the Citadel. 

Once he tells Sarella and others about the Others, they will begin to research them in the libraries of the Citadel. Any scrape of forgotten knowledge that does not exist at the Wall will exist in the ancient books of the Citadel.

What if Sam finds out that the Others are a deeper mystery than first expected? What if he finds out truths about the Wall that turn everything about the mission of the Night's Watch around?