Joanna Lannister is alive.

Joanna Lannister has a glass candle.

And Joanna Lannister is Quaithe.

Wait. How could this be true? How do we know that Joanna is alive?

Because she tells us she is.


#The Vision
In A Feast For Crows, Chapter 44, Jaime has a vision. I'll paraphrase it here:


In it, he sees a figure in his room, dressed in all grey: a silent sister. A hood and veil conceal her features.

He sees candles burning in her eyes - a reflection of the glass candle she is using to communicate.

She pushes back her hood, and asks if Jaime has forgotten her... but he recognizes her: his mother. Joanna.

"Who are you?", he asks.

"The question is, who are you?" she asks him back.

He asks, or states, "This is a dream."

She sadly smiles and says, "Is it? Count your hands, child."

Jaime realizes that he only has one hand. In his dreams, he always has two hands.

He is not dreaming.


She continues: "Tywin dreamed that his son would be a great knight, and that his daughter would be a queen...and that no on would ever laugh at them."

"I am a knight, and Cercei is a queen", Jaime replies.

Knowing the truth of the matter, a tear rolls down Joanna's cheek. And she turns to leave, ignoring Jaime's calls.


##What does it mean.
In this scene, Joanna reveals herself to be alive, and to have access to a glass candle that is burning. She knows what is going on in King's Landing, as evidenced by her obvious sadness about the state of Jaime and Cercei's life.

She projects a vision of herself to Jaime using the glass candle, as evidenced by the glow of the candle reflecting in her eyes.

She is described as having a hood and a veil, which obscures her features, though not enough that Jaime can't recognize her after she pulls the hood back. But it's never mentioned that she actually shows her face.

She states categorically that it's not a dream, and points out that Jaime only has one hand. This means that she has also seen his dreams and knows that he dreams of having his sword hand back.

It also means that she is alive, and it is a vision, not a dream.

There is one other major character known to have these visions: Danaerys. After Quaithe touches her in Qarth, sending a tingling sensation into her wrist, Dany is visited by Quaithe, who seems to know about her past and her future.

##Quaithe
Quaithe is a shadowbinder from Asshai, who meets Dany in Qarth, and gives her a warning to leave before her dragons are stolen by the Qartheen. She also gives her very cryptic advice about her future. Later, she visits Dany in visions that are exactly like the one Jaime experiences with his mother.

Quaithe is using a glass candle to communicate with Dany. Quaithe can both project herself into Dany's vision, and uses the glass candle to see the future and to warn Dany about what is coming to meet her.

She wears a mask, as shadowbinders of Asshai are known to do.

But, even more importantly, she seems to know more about Dany's past than anyone else in the books. She constantly tells her to "Remember who you are"...


So Quaithe is a woman who can project visions across the world, who wears a mask to hide her identity, and who knows about Dany's mysterious past?

There is only one other character introduced into the books who matches that description: Joanna Lannister.



#Who was Joanna Lannister?
Before she was Tyrion, Cersei, and Jaime's mother, Joanna Lannister was born the daughter of Ser Jason Lannister, younger brother to Tytos Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock. The cousin to her later husband Tywin, she was at least three years younger than him. They met as children growing up at Casterly Rock.

She left Casterly Rock for King's Landing in 259AC to be a handmaid to the future princess, Rhaella. There, she met Prince Aerys.

##Kings Landing

At court she became very close with Princess (later Queen) Rhaella, who later becomes Dany's mother. She also became very close with Doran and Oberyn's mother (unnamed), who was another young highborn lady invited to court around 260AC.

##Forced to marry
King Aerys and Queen Rhaella were brother and sister. They were forced to marry each other by their father, who was following the wisdom of the Woods Witch. However, they were both in love with other people, and only married for duty.


Because of this lack of love and interest in others (Rhaella was in love with Ser Bonifer Hasty in her youth), she turned a blind eye to his infidelities. This included Joanna, who "dated" Aerys for over three years before her marriage.


###Aerys
That Aerys loved Joanna as a young man, and that they consumated that love, is well established. It's rumoured that they first slept together at the coronation of Aerys' father. She was still his paramour even after he ascended to the throne. Aerys had other brief romances, but his interest in Joanna was the longest lasting, given his obvious jealous after her marriage to Tywin.

While Grand Maester Pycelle is known to dispute that this romance took place, his evidence is only that Tywin Lannister would never have married Joanna knowning that she had loved Aerys. However, Tywin has no compuction about sleeping with a woman that his son had loved,as we see with Shae, so I very much doubt that this was an issue.

In fact, Tywin seems to enjoy this extra humiliation of Tyrion, and it's very much in line with the really ugly parts of his personality. Tywin's personality, in fact, is so extreme that it makes me question if Joanna would have ever actually loved him. He is not a very lovable person.



###Tywin and Aerys
Tywin was a knight during the War of the Ninepenny Kings, and he met Aerys, who was a squire at the time. Tywin already demonstraed his particular brand of crueltly during the war, but proved effective in battle. Aerys, who must of looked up to Tywin greatly, choice to be knighted by Tywin.

Three years later, Aerys became king and appointed Tywin as Hand of the King.

That was the height of their alliance. While Aerys dallied with women and travelled the land, Tywin ran the kingdom. As the story goes, Aerys became more and more jealous of Tywin, eventually causing their split years down the road. But was that all there was to the story?

###Joanna and Tywin
Joanna married her cousin Tywin in 263AC, in a lavish ceremony in King's Landing. While it's possible that they had fallen in love as children, as it does seem that Tywin loved her, it's never made clear if Joanna loved him back. She had been at court, and lover of Aerys, for almost 4 years at that point.

I wonder what their relationship was truly like. Did she really care for her cousin, a man known for brutality and discipline? Or was she still in love with Aerys?

###Wedding night
It's possible that the true root of the jealousy between Aerys and Tywin was in Tywin's choice of bride. At the wedding night of Tywin and Joanna, Aerys acted like a crazed jealous man and "took liberties" that were considered scandaluous, even for the ribald wedding night ceremonies that Westerosi favor.

It's clear that he still had strong feelings for Joanna. It's never made clear if she loved him back, of course, but on that night Aerys demonstrated a change in his relationship with Tywin: from adoring young squire who looked up to a brave knight, to jealous king in love with the brave knight's wife.


###Joanna and Rhaella
In fact, Aerys continued his love affair with Joanna even after the marriage, as evidenced by the dismissal of Joanna from Rhaella's service. I suspect that, Joanna, fearful for the rage that Tywin would muster if he was to find out, must have urged Rhaella to help her out.

Rhaella dismissed Joanna from her service in 263AC, not long after the wedding. If she did so to protect Joanna is unclear, she did have a known quote on the matter:

>the queen did not approve of his "turning my ladies into his whores."  - *A World of Ice and Fire, Aerys II*

In other words, Joanna was off limits to Aerys, along with the other married ladies of the court. To ensure that she remained off limits, she moved back to Casterly Rock, while Tywin stayed on as Hand.

While Joanna had been unmarried, Rhaella had no issue with the relationship between Aerys and Joanna. It went on for over three years, while Rhaella was married to Aerys, and Joanna and Rhaella were good friends. However, to protect the relationship between Tywin and Aerys, which meant to protect the realm, as well as to protect Joanna, Rhaella had no choice but to dismiss her.





#Children of a marriage

Joanna and Tywin had three children: Cercei and Jaime, the twins, and Tyrion, whose birth was the death of Joanna.

However,[this has been challenged by a number of readers][barren]. There is evidence to suspect that Tywin was barren. Chiefly, his decades of secret whoring, accessed from the Red Keep to a specific whorehouse in King's Landing, produced no known children.

Also, the infrequency of Joanna's pregnancies must be considered. It took her over 2 years to get pregnant with Cercei and Jaime. It took another 7 years to get pregnant with Tyrion. Partially, this can be explained by her presence at Casterly Rock while Tywin was at King's Landing. However, it does not help his case.

Many suspect that either the twins, or Tyrion, or both, were fathered by Aerys. His marriage certainty produced children, but as has been covered over and over, it is not clear if they are his.


The timeline works out for Aerys to be the father of all of Joanna's children.  [Here is a great post covering it in detail][barren], but here is a summary:

Cercei and Jamie are born in 266AC, three years after the marriage to Tywin. While Joanna has been in Casterly Rock for the last few years, she would visit Kings Landing every now and then. Whether fathered by Tywin or Aerys, she had to come to them to get pregnant, and the two men were in King's Landing.

Tyrion could have been conceived during the 10 Year Anniversary Tourney held in honor of Aerys' first decade as King. Aerys' insults Joanna famously by asking if her first children had ruined her breasts. Perhaps she went to him to show him that they were not ruined?

So, it's very plausible that she could have been impregnated twice by Aerys, while never getting pregnant by Tywin, or there could be some sort of mix - perhaps one or more of the children were from Tywin and the others from Aerys?

Either way, it's pretty obvious by her freak out about Jamie and Cercei's incest that she either suspects or knows that they are secret Targaryens. And once she became pregnant again in 272AC, she knew that she needed to figure out a way to escape before brutal Tywin became suspicious.

So she devised a plot to escape forever with one of her best friends: Mother Martell.

#The Plot: Getting her out of Casterly Rock?

##The Setup

Joanna Lannister and Mother Martell plotted together... to do something. Oberyn describes this plot to Tyrion before the Trial by Battle in Storm of Swords as a marriage alliance between Dorne and Casterly Rock. Either Elia or Oberyn would marry Jaime or Cercei.

However, this rings  really false to me. Joanna supposedly planned the marriage alliance with Dorne, but she must have known how Tywin felt. Even if she did rule him at home, there was no way that he was going to let Jaime and Cercei marry the Martells. He was dead set on getting into the royal family, and in besting Aerys once again.

So what were they really plotting?


##Flashback: The Twins
One day at Casterly Rock, Joanna found Cercei and Jaime fucking and knew she was in trouble. She freaked out and had them separated in different wings of the Rock. She even posted guards to ensure that there was no brother-sister hanky-panky.

Because she knew what that meant: These weren't Tywin's children. They were Aerys children, half-Targaryen, and prone to do what Targaryens and Valyrians had done for generations: fall in love with each other.

##A queer time to come visiting
Just after her 'death', the Martells arrive for a visit. Warned of Joanna's death during pregnancy at Oldtown as they sailed north, pushed ahead to visit Casterly Rock as planned.

Oberyn noted that there was one extra room on board the boat. He suspected that it was intended for either Cercei or Jaime to be taken to Dorne for a marriage to the Martells.

When Tyrion hears about this plot, which happens while he was a baby, he thinks: "A queer time to come visiting". Yes, yes indeed.

##Stop making sense
But does that proposal between Mother Martell and Tywin make any sense? Just think about the proposal. First, if there is anything that Joanna knew about Tywin, it was that he intended his children to be married into the royal family, not the Martells. Marrying the Martells doesn't make any sense w/r/t political alignments - it would be very unusual for the Lannisters, who normally marry their bannermen, and it would make Aerys think that the two families were combining to work against him.

Despite being best friends with Joanna, during their Mother Martell approached Tywin about the marriage, knowing fully that Tywin was in a worse mood than usual. She went ahead and approached him about the subject of a marriage alliance between the two families - either one or both of their children. It was not well recieved.

As Joanna and Mother Martell expected. They knew that he would never have agreed to the marriages, and even more so when he was deep in grief.

It went exactly to plan.

##Then who died?

In 273AC, just before Mother Martell's visit, Joanna gave birth to Tyrion and 'died'. Now, she is not dead, but we know that someone died. Who could it have been?

Lynora Hill.

Joanna had a low-born bastard sister, Lenora Hill, who was the same age as her (roughly). She is only casually mentioned as the daughter of a relationship between Jason Lannister and a serving girl.

I think that Joanna had her poisoned. She was buried instead of Joanna.

##The Escape
After the 'death', we know nothing about what happens to Joanna until Jaime's vision.
Let's speculate on what could have happened:
Fleeing on the Martell's boat, Joanna would have been taken to Dorne to hide. However, she doesn't stay there, as her best friend needed her help- she knows that Rhaella is in danger.

Because of the difficult pregnancies and the stillbirths of many children, Aerys starts to have many suspicions. To alleviate concerns about her being poisoned (or even poisoning the children herself), Queen Rhaella is locked up in Maegor's Holdfast in 270AC, with two septas that will sleep with her every night.

Who are these two septas? It's notable that Joanna presents as a Silent Sister to Jaime in the vision.

In 275AC, Aerys (who was driven mad by being captured and held at Duskendale) announces that he will only sleep with his wife. While normally this would be good news that a husband will be faithful, but for Rhaella, this could mean death. She does give birth to a healthy baby boy: Viserys.

Aerys goes more and more crazy, and begins to torture Queen Rhaella. Finally, Robert's Rebellion occurs, and the Queen and Viserys are moved to Dragonstone.

I think Joanna joined her at Dragonstone, if she was not already with Rhaella as a septa. And along with her came Marwyn the Mage, who was the Maester who helped Rhaella with her pregnancy and the birth of Dany... although she still passed.

With the Targaryens destroyed in Westeros, Joanna and Marwyn knew they needed to get the kids out of Dragonstone and hidden from King Robert. So they left Dragonstone, and went to Dorne, where the Martells hide them and plotted to restore them.

But Joanna and Marwyn knew that they needed to guide the children, and that they needed to become more powerful to do so.

So they left for Asshai. Joanna became a shadowbinder and learns to use a glass candle. Marwyn studies all kinds of ancient mysteries and even teaches Mirri Maz Durr about the mysteries of life. Joanna ventures deep into the Shadow Lands to become the powerful Quaithe, who watches over her best friend's daughter with a glass candle, sending her visions and prophecy and advice.

When she says "Remember who you are, Danaerys. The dragons remember. Do you?", she is speaking from a lot of experience with the Targaryen family.


##Thanks for reading
While there is more to discuss and include, and while the secret Targaryen thing can be somewhat annoying, I don't think this theory requires much tinfoil. All the pieces to the plot are there, and Jaime's vision is the clicher.

We really don't know anything about Joanna, Rhaella, and Mother Martell (not even her name), which takes away from our understanding of such a complex topic, but with some help and imagination we can understand better how they lived and died... or didn't.

Check out http://godsofterror.tumblr.com for more.


[barren]: https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6ckvca/spoilers_published_revisiting_the_parentage_of/
[Rha]:http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Rhaella_Targaryen
[Jo]:http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Joanna_Lannister
