However, the Lovecraftian nods are not just limited to Carcosa, although that is included in the Terros World Map.

The squishers of AFFC are Deep Ones in action and description.

Maester Theron in AWOIAF postulates about Deep Ones directly.

The Toad God on the Isle of Toads is Tsathoggua


The Black Goat of Qohor is Shub-Niggurath

Leng worships the Old Ones, a major clue

The Drowned God is probably Cthulhu

The God of the Norvoshi is probably Hastur, He Who Shall No Be Named

The Storm God is probably Hastur, who hates his brother Cthulhu, the Drowned God

HASTUR IS THE GREAT NOT TO BE NAMED, MAGNUM INNOMINANDUM 
Hastur is the Great Other to the followers of R'hllor, he who shall not be named. 
Hastur was the god of shepards in the old days, when the Valyrians were shepards. But the Valyrians turned from Hastur when they discovered the power of the dragons. They turned to Cthuggha, god of fire, as their new god. They established the religion of R'hllor to worship Cthuggha as the Lord of Light and Shadows. Cthuggha and his flame vampires helped the Valyrians control the 14 Flames.


The Many-Faced God is the Faceless God of Death and Dismay, Nyarlathotep, who was also the 69th Yellow Emperor of the Golden Empire of Yi Ti 

The Fisher Queens of antiquity were probably related to Bokrug, as the Kingdom of Sarnath is related to the story "The Doom that Came to Sarnath".

Sothoryos is named after Yog-Sothoth

White Worm is the God Rlim Shaikorth
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clark_Ashton_Smith_deities#Rlim_Shaikorth
The White Worm travels on a gigantic iceberg called Yikilth, which it can guide across the ocean. In its colossal ice-citadel, the White Worm prowls the seas, blasting ships and inhabited land masses with extreme cold. Victims of the White Worm are frozen solid, their bodies appearing eerily white, and remain preternaturally cold—they will not melt nor warm even when exposed to fire. (The Coming of the White Worm, 1941)


Yhoundeh
In Smith's The Door to Saturn, Yhoundeh the elk-goddess is the name of the deity worshipped in the waning days of Hyperborea. Yhoundeh's priests also banned Tsathoggua's cult, and her inquisitors punished any heretics. As the Hyperborean civilization drew to a close, Yhoundeh's priests fell out of favor and the people returned to the worship of Tsathoggua.
According to the Parchments of Pnom, Yhoundeh is the wife of Nyarlathotep, messenger of the Outer Gods.


Who is the Weeping Woman?
http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Weeping_Woman
Nyarlathotep
	